README.md, before:

# Ansible LDAP Inventory Plugin

This plugin was designed to query active directory and get a list of machines to use as an inventory.
Groups are auto generated off of OU structure and optionally group membership. 
So for example `cn=computer1,ou=servers,ou=windows,dc=mycompany,dc=local` would create the following inventory :
```
    "all": {
        "children": [
            "windows"
        ]
    },
    "windows": {
        "children": [
            "windows_servers"
        ]
    },
    "windows_servers": {
        "hosts": [
            "computer1"
        ]
    }
```

## Prerequisites

The ldap inventory works with python2 and python3.

**The following package is required :**
* [python-ldap](https://www.python-ldap.org/en/latest/) 

It can be installed in one of the following ways : 

*pip install -r requirements.txt*

or

*pip install python-ldap*

## Configuration Example
Place the file `ldap_inventory.py` into your base folder under `.\plugins\inventory\`

Create a file that ends with `ldap_inventory.yaml` in your base directory.
It is recommended you vault the entire file if storing passwords in plaintext(until ansible supports vaulted strings in config files) `ansible-vault edit ldap_inventory.yaml`

>`LDAP_USER`, `LDAP_PASS` and `SEARCH_OU` environmental variables can be used instead of including them in the configuration file. This is helpful if using the plugin in [Ansible Tower/AWX](https://github.com/ansible/awx).

Example `ldap_inventory.yaml` :
```yaml
---
plugin: ldap_inventory
domain: 'ldaps://adserver.domain.local:636'
username: user@domain.local
password: "password"
search_ou: "OU=Servers,OU=Windows,DC=domain,DC=local"
```

## Parameters
### `account_age`
> LDAP attribute filter for the lastLogonTimestamp field. This value is generally updated every 14 days. Timestamps older indicate inactive computer accounts. Setting to 0 disables check. Value is in days.

* default: `0`

### `auth_type`
> Defines the type of authentication used when connecting to Active Directory (LDAP). When using `simple`, the **`username`** and **`password`** parameters must be set. When using `gssapi`, run **kinit** before running Ansible to get a valid Kerberos ticket.

* allowed values: `simple`, `gssapi`
* default: `simple`

### `domain`
> The domain to search in to retrieve inventory. This could either be a Windows domain name visible to the Ansible controller from DNS or a specific domain controller FQDN. Supports either just the domain/host name or an explicit LDAP URI with the domain/host already filled in. If the URI is set, **`port`** and **`scheme`** are ignored.
* required: true

**examples:**
```yaml
domain: "local.com"
```
```yaml
domain: "dc1.local.com"
```
```yaml
domain: "ldaps://dc1.local.com:636"
```
```yaml
domain: "ldap://dc1.local.com"
```
### `group_membership`
>Enables parsing the ldap groups that the computer account is a memberOf. Groups are returned lower case.
* default: `"False"`

**example:**
```yaml
group_membership: True
```

### `group_membership_filter`
>When we query for Group membership of the computer object, this allows you to only include names that match the pattern provided.
* default: `""`

**example:**
```yaml
group_membership: "security-*"
```

### `exclude_groups`
>Exclude a list of groups from being included in the inventory. This will match substrings.
* default: `""`

**example:**
```yaml
exclude_groups: "windows_group1,windows_group2"
```

### `exclude_hosts`
>Exclude a list of hosts from being included in the inventory. This will match substrings.
* default: `""`

**example:**
```yaml
exclude_hosts: "hostname1,hostname2"
```

### `extra_groups`
>Add a list of groups to the inventory under the top-level `all` group and place
>all hosts into these groups.  This is useful in an AWX/Tower scenario where
>hosts need to be put into a named group to pick up variable values specific to
>that.  AWX/Tower performs this variable assignment at inventory sync time and
>not playbook execution time.
* default: []

**example:**
```yaml
extra_groups:
  - foo
  - bar
  - baz
```

### `fqdn_format`
>Specifies if we should use FQDN instead of shortname for hosts.
* Allow Values: `True`, `False`
* Default: `False`

### `ldap_filter`
>LDAP filter used to find objects. You should not usually need to change this.
* Allowed Values: [RFC 4515](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4515.html)
* Default: `"(objectClass=Computer)"`

### `online_only`
>Performs a ping check of the machine before adding to inventory. Note: Does not work under bubblewrap (Tower/AWX) due to setuid flag of ping.
* Allow Values: `True`, `False`
* Default: `False`

### `password`
>Password used to authenticate LDAP user when **`auth_type`** is set to `simple`. Can use environmental variable `LDAP_PASSWORD` instead of setting in config.
* required: true

**example:**
```yaml
password: "Password123!"
```

### `port`
>Port used to connect to Domain Controller. If **`domain`** URI contains ldap or ldaps this is ignored.
* Default: `389` for ldap, `636` for ldaps

### `scheme`
>The ldap scheme to use. When using `ldap`, it is recommended to set `auth=gssapi`, or `start_tls=yes`, otherwise traffic will be in plaintext. This parameter is not required and can be determined from the **`domain`** URI or **`port`**.
* Allowed Values: `ldap`, `ldaps`
* Default: `ldap`

### `search_ou`
>LDAP path to search for computer objects. Can use environmental variable `SEARCH_OU` instead of setting in config.
* required: true

**example:**
```yaml
search_ou: "CN=Computers,DC=local,DC=com"
```

### `username`
>LDAP user account used to bind LDAP search when **`auth_type`** is set to `simple`. Can use environmental variable `LDAP_USER` instead of setting in config.
* required: true

**examples:**
```yaml
username: "username@local.com"
```
```yaml
username: "domain\\\\username"
```

### `validate_certs`
>Controls if verfication is done of SSL certificates for secure (ldaps://) connections.
* Allow Values: `True`, `False`
* Default: `True`




## Testing

`ansible-inventory -i ldap_inventory --list`

`ansible-inventory -i ldap_inventory --list --vault-id=@prompt` (when vaulted)

** Running a playbook **

`ansible-playbook -i ldap_inventory.yaml adhoc.yaml --vault-id@prompt `

Commit message:

Changed to work fine with OpenLDAP instead of AD (currently hardcoded, maybe using variables in the future)

README.md, after:

# Ansible LDAP Inventory Plugin

This fork is to modify this plugin to work easier with OpenLDAP.
(Instead of Activedirectory as the original plugin does. Look there if you use an AD.)
(This version is seraching for cn entries. Original plugin is searching for name entries.)

=============================
This plugin was designed to query active directory and get a list of machines to use as an inventory.
Groups are auto generated off of OU structure and optionally group membership. 
So for example `cn=computer1,ou=servers,ou=windows,dc=mycompany,dc=local` would create the following inventory :
```
    "all": {
        "children": [
            "windows"
        ]
    },
    "windows": {
        "children": [
            "windows_servers"
        ]
    },
    "windows_servers": {
        "hosts": [
            "computer1"
        ]
    }
```

## Prerequisites

The ldap inventory works with python2 and python3.

**The following package is required :**
* [python-ldap](https://www.python-ldap.org/en/latest/) 

It can be installed in one of the following ways : 

*pip install -r requirements.txt*

or

*pip install python-ldap*

## Configuration Example
Place the file `ldap_inventory.py` into your base folder under `.\plugins\inventory\`

Create a file that ends with `ldap_inventory.yaml` in your base directory.
It is recommended you vault the entire file if storing passwords in plaintext(until ansible supports vaulted strings in config files) `ansible-vault edit ldap_inventory.yaml`

>`LDAP_USER`, `LDAP_PASS` and `SEARCH_OU` environmental variables can be used instead of including them in the configuration file. This is helpful if using the plugin in [Ansible Tower/AWX](https://github.com/ansible/awx).

Example `ldap_inventory.yaml` :
```yaml
---
plugin: ldap_inventory
domain: 'ldaps://adserver.domain.local:636'
username: user@domain.local
password: "password"
search_ou: "OU=Servers,OU=Windows,DC=domain,DC=local"
```

## Parameters
### `account_age`
> LDAP attribute filter for the lastLogonTimestamp field. This value is generally updated every 14 days. Timestamps older indicate inactive computer accounts. Setting to 0 disables check. Value is in days.

* default: `0`

### `auth_type`
> Defines the type of authentication used when connecting to Active Directory (LDAP). When using `simple`, the **`username`** and **`password`** parameters must be set. When using `gssapi`, run **kinit** before running Ansible to get a valid Kerberos ticket.

* allowed values: `simple`, `gssapi`
* default: `simple`

### `domain`
> The domain to search in to retrieve inventory. This could either be a Windows domain name visible to the Ansible controller from DNS or a specific domain controller FQDN. Supports either just the domain/host name or an explicit LDAP URI with the domain/host already filled in. If the URI is set, **`port`** and **`scheme`** are ignored.
* required: true

**examples:**
```yaml
domain: "local.com"
```
```yaml
domain: "dc1.local.com"
```
```yaml
domain: "ldaps://dc1.local.com:636"
```
```yaml
domain: "ldap://dc1.local.com"
```
### `group_membership`
>Enables parsing the ldap groups that the computer account is a memberOf. Groups are returned lower case.
* default: `"False"`

**example:**
```yaml
group_membership: True
```

### `group_membership_filter`
>When we query for Group membership of the computer object, this allows you to only include names that match the pattern provided.
* default: `""`

**example:**
```yaml
group_membership: "security-*"
```

### `exclude_groups`
>Exclude a list of groups from being included in the inventory. This will match substrings.
* default: `""`

**example:**
```yaml
exclude_groups: "windows_group1,windows_group2"
```

### `exclude_hosts`
>Exclude a list of hosts from being included in the inventory. This will match substrings.
* default: `""`

**example:**
```yaml
exclude_hosts: "hostname1,hostname2"
```

### `extra_groups`
>Add a list of groups to the inventory under the top-level `all` group and place
>all hosts into these groups.  This is useful in an AWX/Tower scenario where
>hosts need to be put into a named group to pick up variable values specific to
>that.  AWX/Tower performs this variable assignment at inventory sync time and
>not playbook execution time.
* default: []

**example:**
```yaml
extra_groups:
  - foo
  - bar
  - baz
```

### `fqdn_format`
>Specifies if we should use FQDN instead of shortname for hosts.
* Allow Values: `True`, `False`
* Default: `False`

### `ldap_filter`
>LDAP filter used to find objects. You should not usually need to change this.
* Allowed Values: [RFC 4515](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4515.html)
* Default: `"(objectClass=Computer)"`

### `online_only`
>Performs a ping check of the machine before adding to inventory. Note: Does not work under bubblewrap (Tower/AWX) due to setuid flag of ping.
* Allow Values: `True`, `False`
* Default: `False`

### `password`
>Password used to authenticate LDAP user when **`auth_type`** is set to `simple`. Can use environmental variable `LDAP_PASSWORD` instead of setting in config.
* required: true

**example:**
```yaml
password: "Password123!"
```

### `port`
>Port used to connect to Domain Controller. If **`domain`** URI contains ldap or ldaps this is ignored.
* Default: `389` for ldap, `636` for ldaps

### `scheme`
>The ldap scheme to use. When using `ldap`, it is recommended to set `auth=gssapi`, or `start_tls=yes`, otherwise traffic will be in plaintext. This parameter is not required and can be determined from the **`domain`** URI or **`port`**.
* Allowed Values: `ldap`, `ldaps`
* Default: `ldap`

### `search_ou`
>LDAP path to search for computer objects. Can use environmental variable `SEARCH_OU` instead of setting in config.
* required: true

**example:**
```yaml
search_ou: "CN=Computers,DC=local,DC=com"
```

### `username`
>LDAP user account used to bind LDAP search when **`auth_type`** is set to `simple`. Can use environmental variable `LDAP_USER` instead of setting in config.
* required: true

**examples:**
```yaml
username: "username@local.com"
```
```yaml
username: "domain\\\\username"
```

### `validate_certs`
>Controls if verfication is done of SSL certificates for secure (ldaps://) connections.
* Allow Values: `True`, `False`
* Default: `True`




## Testing

`ansible-inventory -i ldap_inventory --list`

`ansible-inventory -i ldap_inventory --list --vault-id=@prompt` (when vaulted)

** Running a playbook **

`ansible-playbook -i ldap_inventory.yaml adhoc.yaml --vault-id@prompt `
